# 6. Prediction

A direct application of deep models to image processing is to recover from degradation by utilizing the redundancy in the statistical structure of images.

## Denoising Autoencoder
A type of neural network designed to remove noise or unwanted variations from data. Such a model is trained by collecting a large number of clean samples paired with their degraded inputs.

## Image Classification
The simplest strategy for extracting semantics from an image, consisting of predicting a class from a finite, predefined number of classes, given an input image.

## Object Detection
Given an input image, predict the classes and positions of objects of interest. This is expensive because putting boxes around a bunch of data is human time costly.

## Single Shot Detector
Efficiently detects and localizes objects within images, particularly in real-time scenarios.

## Semantic Segmentation
Predicting, for each pixel, the class of the object to which it belongs.

## Speech Recognition
Casting words to a sequence-to-sequence translation and then solving it with a standard attention-based transformer.
- **Spectrogram**: A way to visualize the different frequency components of a signal over time.

## Text-image Representation
Consistent image and text representations are mapped to be the same feature vector.

## Contrastive Loss
A loss function popular in self-supervised learning where the model learns to differentiate between similar and dissimilar data points.

## Zero-Shot Prediction
The ability to make accurate predictions for classes or tasks it has never been directly trained on.

## Markovian
If a system's future behavior depends only on its current state and is independent of its past history beyond that state.

## Markovian Decision Process
A mathematical framework used to model decision-making in situations where outcomes are uncertain and the environment is influenced by stochastic (random) events.

## Deep Q Network
RL algorithm that combines deep neural networks with the Q-learning algorithm to learn optimal strategies for decision-making in environments with discrete actions.